.TH GITODO 1 "2015-08-30" "Git-TODO" "A personal task manager"
.SH NAME
gitodo \- a personal task manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgitodo\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-list\fP \fIid\fP [\fIid ...\fP]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-edit\fP \fIid\fP [\fIid ...\fP]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-print\fP \fIid\fP [\fIid ...\fP]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-delete\fP \fIid\fP [\fIid ...\fP]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-new\fP [\fIn\fP]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-new\-from\-files\fP \fIfile\fP [\fIfile\fP ...]
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-body\fP \fIterm\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-cron\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-cron\-outdated\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-count\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-raw\fP
.br
\fBgitodo\fP \fB\-\-rotting\fP [\fIn\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gitodo is a simple personal task manager for your command line.
.P
You can do the following:
.P
.IP \(bu 4
Add, edit and list your tasks. Essentially, that's a TODO list.
.IP \(bu 4
Prioritize some tasks. Negative priorities mean a higher urgency.
.IP \(bu 4
Set a deadline for tasks.
.IP \(bu 4
Be able to synchronize your tasks with other machines because they're
kept in a Git repository.
.P
When listing tasks, they're first sorted by importance then by deadline.
Typical output from the script might look like this:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
 S   Pri      Deadline         ID    Subject
---+-----+------------------+------+-----------------------------------
   | -15 |                  |    1 | Mail to Jane: Dinner
   |  -3 |                  |    2 | Christmas presents
 D |   0 |            22:00 |    9 | Remove garbage from your bed
 C |   0 |            23:30 |    8 | Go to sleep -- yes, it's important
   |   0 | 2010-12-10 23:59 |   10 | Still awake?
   |   0 | 2010-12-13       |    6 | Prepare talk about Git
   |   0 | 2010-12-24       |    7 | Remove SVN from all computers
   |   0 |                  |    4 | Wash dishes
   |   0 |                  |    5 | Buy new milk
   |   5 |                  |    3 | Wash the car
.fi
\fP
.P
Note the order: Items with a higher importance come first. If two items
have the same importance, they're sorted by their deadline. Deadlines
can be a date, a time (meaning \(lqtoday\(rq) or both. If there's no
deadline, the task is considered to be \(lqnot important\(rq and is
moved to the bottom.
.P
If the deadline for a task has already passed, it's marked with a
\fBD\fP at the beginning of the line. If the deadline is close (usually
less than 1 hour left, can be set), the task is marked with a \fBC\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBgitodo\fP is meant to be used on the command line. To make things
easier for you, you can leave out leading dashes. That is, instead of
using \fB\-\-list\fP you could just write \fBlist\fP or even \fBl\fP
because \fB\-l\fP is the short alias for \fB\-\-list\fP.
.P
As you'll see, all important commands have a short alias.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP \fIid [id ...]\fP
List all matching items.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-edit\fP \fIid [id ...]\fP
Edit all matching items using $\fBEDITOR\fP, one after another.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-print\fP \fIid [id ...]\fP
Print all matching items including their body to \fBstdout\fP.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-new\fP [\fIn\fP]
Add \fIn\fP new tasks. You'll be put in your $\fBEDITOR\fP to do so. If
you don't specify \fIn\fP, exactly one new task will be created.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-new\-from\-files\fP \fIfile\fP [\fIfile\fP ...]
Creates a new task from each file. You can use this in scripts. Note
that the editor will be opened for each new task.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-delete\fP \fIid [id ...]\fP
Delete all matching items.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP, \fB\-\-body\fP \fIterm\fP
Search in bodies of items and print matching items (including their
bodies). \fIterm\fP must be a regular expressions understood by Ruby (no
modifiers allowed). See \fBSEARCHING\fP.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-cron\fP
Show a list of outdated tasks and tasks close to the deadline, suitable
for a cron job.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP, \fB\-\-cron\-outdated\fP
Show a list of outdated tasks, suitable for a cron job.
.TP
\fB\-\-count\fP
Count tasks (all open tasks, tasks close to deadline and outdated
tasks).
.TP
\fB\-\-raw\fP
Don't do pretty printing. This option is meant for scripting.
.TP
\fB\-\-rotting\fP [\fIn\fP]
When using \fBgitodo\fP for a long time, you might lose track of some
items \(em especially those without a deadline. \fB\-\-rotting\fP lists
all tasks which have not been changed for \fIn\fP months. Default is 3
months. This only affects tasks without a deadline.
.P
\fIid\fP can be an explicit ID or string beginning with \fB:/\fP (see
\fBSEARCHING\fP) or a special identifier: \fBdead\fP means all outdated
items, \fBclose\fP means all items close to their deadline, \fBtoday\fP
and \fBweek\fP means all items whose deadline is today or in the current
week.
.SH SYNTAX
Items are simple text files. They look like this:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	what: Subject of the task
	when: 2010-12-10 08:30
	prio: 2
	warn: 4

	Some other lines describing the task in detail.
.fi
\fP
.P
Deadline and priority are optional. In fact, only a subject line is
mandatory. The default priority is 0 and no deadline means 2037-01-01
00:00:00. ;-) A negative number means higher priority (just like Linux'
\fBnice\fP(1) values). The priority is meant to range from -99 to 99.
.P
\fBwhen\fP can be anything that is understood by Ruby's
\fBTime.parse()\fP function.
.P
\fBwarn: 4\fP means that this task gets marked as \(lqclose to
deadline\(rq four hours before the deadline will be reached. If this
fields is left out, it defaults to one hour.
.P
\fBsubject:\fP is an alias for \fBwhat:\fP and \fBdead:\fP is an alias
for \fBwhen:\fP.
.P
If there's a line containing only \fBnocron\fP, then this item is not
shown when \fBgitodo\fP is called with \fB\-\-cron\fP or
\fB\-\-cron-outdated\fP.
.P
To help you procrastinate, \fBgitodo\fP knows a special item type: Items
with a priority less than 99 (i.e., 100, 101, 102, ...) which do have a
deadline set are hidden from listings. Such items are not included in
\fB\-\-cron\fP output and \fB\-\-count\fP, either. They're only shown if
they are close to their deadline or even outdated.
.P
This is meant for TODO items that are so unimportant that you don't want
to be bothered by them \(em until it really is about time.
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	what: Wash the car
	dead: 2012-06-15 12:00
	prio: 100

	I really should do this. Some day.
.fi
\fP
.P
If you do want to see such items, you can set the environment variable
$\fBGITODO_SHOW_UNIMPORTANT\fP.
.SH "TASK ITEM FILES, THE REPOSITORY AND SYNCHING"
All your task items are kept in a single directory. Every change of your
task list will be automatically committed to that repository. By
default, \fI$XDG_DATA_HOME/gitodo.items\fP will be used or
\fI$HOME/.local/share/gitodo.items\fP if $\fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fP is not
set. Use the environment variable $\fBGITODO_DATA\fP to change this. If
it's set, then this directory is used.
.P
\fBImportant note:\fP Your items directory must exist and it must
already be initialized as a Git repository. \fBgitodo\fP will not do
this for you.
.P
Common task items will be named like \fIi0123\fP: That would be the file
for the 123rd item. Note that new items will get a random free ID
ranging from 0 to 9999. This is done to avoid merge conflicts.
.P
Add the items repo to your synching mechanism if you want them to be
synched.
.SH "HANDLING EMPTY ITEMS"
\fBgitodo\fP will automatically remove empty items from your repository.
\(lqEmpty\(rq means a completely empty file or a file containing only
whitespace. This is a useful housekeeping mechanism.
.P
It's also relevant if you create new items using \fBgitodo \-\-new\fP.
If you change your mind (\(lqnah, actually, I don't care about this TODO
item\(rq), then just delete all lines while you're still in the editor
and the new item will be dropped. This is similar to commit messages in
\fBgit\fP: When entering an empty commit message, no commit will be
made.
.SH SEARCHING
Instead of giving explicit IDs, you can also use Ruby regular
expressions to search the subjects of your items. The following command
edits all items matching \(lqjane\(rq or \(lqdiane\(rq, your TODO item
with ID 432 and all items matching \(lqgnu\(rq:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	$ gitodo -e ':/(j|di)ane' 432 ':/gnu'
.fi
\fP
.P
Searching using \fB:/\fP as a prefix works with the \fB\-\-edit\fP,
\fB\-\-print\fP, \fB\-\-delete\fP and \fB\-\-list\fP commands. Let me
repeat: This only searches in \fBsubject lines\fB.
.P
To filter your list of TODO items, you can use the \fB\-\-list\fP
command. Again, you can either start your search term with \fB:/\fP to
perform a searching using Ruby regular expressions:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	$ gitodo --list :/time
	 S   Pri      Deadline         ID    Subject
	---+-----+------------------+------+-----------------
	   |   0 | 2012-07-13 11:01 | 1156 | time_t party
.fi
\fP
.P
Or, you can supply one or more ids and even mix both variants:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	$ gitodo --list 7458 2436 :/time
	 S   Pri      Deadline         ID    Subject
	---+-----+------------------+------+-----------------
	   |   0 | 2012-07-01       | 7458 | lico-update
	   |   0 | 2012-07-13 11:01 | 1156 | time_t party
	   |   1 |                  | 2436 | aoi patches
.fi
\fP
.P
To search in \fBbodies\fP of items, you can use \fB\-\-body\fP. Note:
Don't prefix your search term with \fB:/\fP when using \fB\-\-body\fP.
The \fB:/\fP is only needed to distinguish IDs from search terms. As
\fB\-\-body\fP does not understand IDs, there's no need for \fB:/\fP.
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	$ gitodo --body party
	 1156
	------
	what: time_t party
	when: 2012-07-13 11:01
	prio: 50

	At 11:01:20 UTC on July 13, 2012, the Unix time number will
	reach 0x50000000 (1,342,177,280 seconds). With the exception of
	locations in time zones UTC−12:00, UTC+13:00, and UTC+14:00,
	this also happens on a Friday the 13th.

	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time
.fi
\fP
.P
Again, you can use Ruby regexes with \fB\-\-body\fP.
.P
Searching is always case insensitive. For example, if you specify
\fI:/foo\fP, internally \fI/foo/i\fP will be used.
.SH "USING GITODO WITH HIGHCAL"
The \fBhighcal\fP(1) script is an additional and optional Ruby script.
It's purpose is to create a calendar similar to \fBcal\fP(1). The script
also reads from \fBstdin\fP a list of dates which will be highlighted.
On Unix-like systems, it can be easily combined with gitodo:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
	$ gitodo --raw | cut -d' ' -f2 | highcal
.fi
\fP
.P
You'll see the current month plus the two following months. The current
day is marked as well as all deadlines for TODO items (as long as there
is one).
.SH PORTABILITY
\fBgitodo\fP once was a shell script that could be run in the
\fBmsysgit\fP (http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/) environment on
Windows. This is no longer true. \fBgitodo\fP is now implemented in Ruby
1.9 and only tested on current versions of Arch Linux.
.P
Anyway, a little advice: If you ever think about putting the task items
repo on a USB stick and if you want to use that repo from both Windows
and GNU, make sure to \fBdisable\fP msysgit's \(lqautocrlf\(rq feature.
For more information, see:
.P
http://www.tigraine.at/2010/02/03/disable-autcrlf-in-msysgit/
.P
If you leave it enabled, it's going to be nasty.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBGITODO_EDITOR\fP, \fBEDITOR\fP
\fBGITODO_EDITOR\fP has priority over \fBEDITOR\fP. They point to the
editor you wish to use to edit your items. Defaults to \fIvim\fP if both
are unset.
.TP
.B GITODO_EDIT_SINGLE
If this variable is set, the editor will only be called once for all
edit operations. For example, suppose you do a \fIgitodo e :/foo\fP and
\fI:/foo\fP matches the items \fIi1000\fP and \fIi2000\fP. If
\fBGITODO_EDIT_SINGLE\fP is set, only one instance of your editor will
be started, e.g. \fIvim i1000 i2000\fP. If the variable is \fBNOT\fP
set, then several instances will be started, e.g. \fIvim i1000\fP and
then \fIvim i2000\fP after the first Vim has finished. The use case of
\fBGITODO_EDIT_SINGLE\fP is to make use of Vim buffers or using \fIvim
-p\fP as an editor.
.TP
.B GITODO_DATA
If this variable is set, it must point to a directory where your git
repository will be stored. You can use this to override the default
location (see \fBFILES\fP below).
.TP
.B GITODO_FORCE_COLOR
If this variable is set, color is used in any case, even if stdout is
not a terminal.
.TP
.B GITODO_SHOW_UNIMPORTANT
If this variable is set, filtering of \(lqunimportant items\(rq (see
above) will be disabled.
.SH FILES
.TP
.PD 0
\fI$XDG_DATA_HOME/gitodo.items/\fP
.TP
.PD
\fI$HOME/.local/share/gitodo.items/\fP
Default per-user data directory if $\fBGITODO_DATA\fP is not set. The
$\fBHOME\fP variant is only used if $\fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fP is not set.
.SH BUGS
Currently, no bugs are known. If you find one, we invite you to report
it at the GitHub Issue tracker (http://github.com/vain/gitodo/issues).
.SH LICENSE
\fBgitodo\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.SH HISTORY
\fBgitodo\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in December 2010.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR highcal (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR ruby (1).
